README.md, before:

# Project Jericho Runtime

## Projects

The project is split into multiple sub-projects:

- **runtime** - The BoxLang Runtime

## Basic Gradle Tasks

> The output folder used for the builds are `build/**` which can be found in each of the multi-project folders.

| Task              | Description                                                                                                        	|
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `assemble`        | Build all tasks: `build/libs, build/scripts, build/distributions`														|
| `build`           | The default lifecycle task that triggers the build process, including tasks like `clean`, `assemble`, and others. 	|
| `clean`           | Deletes the `build` folders. It helps ensure a clean build by removing any previously generated artifacts.			|
| `compileJava`     | Compiles Java source code files located in the `src/main/java` directory												|
| `compileTestJava` | Compiles Java test source code files located in the `src/test/java` directory											|
| `getDependencies` | Downloads all the dependencies defined in `build.gradle` and puts them in the `build/dependencies` folder 			|
| `jar`             | Packages your project's compiled classes and resources into a JAR file `build/libs` folder							|
| `tasks`			| Show all the available tasks in the project																			|
| `test`            | Executes the unit tests in your project and produces the reports in the `build/reports/tests` folder					|


## Resources

- **Mockito** - The Mocking library we use: https://www.baeldung.com/mockito-series
- **JUnit** - Our testing framework: https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/, https://www.baeldung.com/junit

Commit message:

code haeders, licenses and docs

README.md, after:

# Project Jericho

## Projects

The project is split into multiple sub-projects:

- **compiler** - The BoxLang Compiler/Parser and ByteCode Generator
- **runtime** - The BoxLang Runtime

## JDK Targets

- JDK 17 LTS is our compiled code JDK Baseline which will be supported until 2026 with extended support until 2029.
- https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/java-se-support-roadmap.html

## Basic Gradle Tasks

> The output folder used for the builds are `build/**` which can be found in each of the multi-project folders.

| Task              | Description                                                                                                        	|
|-------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `assemble`        | Build all tasks: `build/libs, build/scripts, build/distributions`														|
| `build`           | The default lifecycle task that triggers the build process, including tasks like `clean`, `assemble`, and others. 	|
| `clean`           | Deletes the `build` folders. It helps ensure a clean build by removing any previously generated artifacts.			|
| `compileJava`     | Compiles Java source code files located in the `src/main/java` directory												|
| `compileTestJava` | Compiles Java test source code files located in the `src/test/java` directory											|
| `getDependencies` | Downloads all the dependencies defined in `build.gradle` and puts them in the `build/dependencies` folder 			|
| `jar`             | Packages your project's compiled classes and resources into a JAR file `build/libs` folder							|
| `tasks`			| Show all the available tasks in the project																			|
| `test`            | Executes the unit tests in your project and produces the reports in the `build/reports/tests` folder					|


## Core Dependencies

Here is a listing of all of our core dependencies.  If you add one, make sure you document it here.

| Dependency | Version | License | Description |
|------------|---------|---------|-------------|
| [boxlang-compiler](https://github.com/ortus-solutions-private/boxlang-compiler) | 1.0.0 | Apache2 | The BoxLang Parser, Compiler, and BytCode Generator |

## Dev Dependencies

Here is a listing of all of our dev dependencies.  If you add one, make sure you document it here.

| Library   	| Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| **JUnit**     | Testing Framework: [JUnit User Guide](https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/) |
| **Mockito**   | Mocking library we use: [Mockito](https://www.baeldung.com/mockito-series) |
| **Truth**     | Extended assertion library: [Truth](https://github.com/google/truth) |

## Contributing

- All code should be formatted using either our Java Formatter or the CFFormatter.
- All code should have a license/copyright header based on [CodeHeader.txt](workbench/CodeHeader.txt)
